---
layout: playbook
title: Learn the Basic Principles
permalink: playbook/basics
category: playbook
---

# Graphical Perception

# Graphical Excellence -> Graphics reveal data

1. **Show the data**

2. **Do no harm** - Avoid distorting the data

- Present many numbers in small space
- Make large data set coherent
- Present man numbers in small space
Focus on the substance not the style

- ## Makes the insight jump out…  Reveals something about the data - as several details

Complex ideas - communicated with clarity, precision and efficiency

"Greatest number of ideas, in the shortest time, with least ink in the smallest space" - Edward Tufte, The Visual Display of Quantitative Information

- Have a clear Purpose -> Explanation, Exploration or Expression
- Integrate stats and messaging 

EXAMPLES - 
- ANSCOMBE DATA
- Playfair
- Minard
- Lambert

Excellence comes in multi-variate sort - data maps, time-series, space-time narrative and relations map



# Graphical Integrity - Telling the truth about the data

- The representation of numbers, as physically measured on the surface of the graphic itself, should be directly proportional to the numerical quantities represented.
- Clear, detailed, and thorough labeling should be used to defeat graphical distortion and ambiguity. Write out explanations of the data on the graphic itself. Label important events in the data.
- Show data variation, not design variation.
- In time-series displays of money, deflated and standardized units of monetary measurement are nearly always better than nominal units.
- The number of information-carrying (variable) dimensions depicted should not exceed the number of dimensions in the data.
- Graphics must not quote data out of context.

Truncated Y-axis
Cumulative vs. Yearly
Does not add to 100%

# Understand data-ink

# Reduce chart junk

# 	

